Migration of Badging API article (#1614)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/badging-api/index.md

---
title: Badging for app icons

> subhead: The Badging API allows installed web apps to set an application-wide badge on the app icon.

Reviewer: subhead text needs to be unique.

authors:
  - petelepage
description: The Badging API allows installed web apps to set an application-wide badge, shown in an operating-system-specific place associated with the application, such as the shelf or home screen. Badging makes it easy to subtly notify the user that there is some new activity that might require their attention, or it can be used to indicate a small amount of information, such as an unread count.
date: 2018-12-11
updated: 2019-10-08
tags:
  - post
  - capabilities
  - badging
  - progressive-web-apps
  - notifications
  - origintrials
  - fugu
hero: hero.jpg
alt: Phone showing several notification badges
draft: true
---

{% Aside 'caution' %}
  This API is part of the new
  [capabilities project](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/capabilities),
  and starting in Chrome 73 it is available as an [**origin trial**](#ot).
  This post will be updated as the Badging API evolves.
{% endAside %}

## What is the Badging API? {: #what }

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--inline-right">
  <img  src="badges-on-windows.jpg" class="w-screenshot"
        alt="Example of Twitter with eight notifications and another app showing a flag type badge.">

>   <figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
```

Sorry, missed this the first time.

    Example of Twitter with eight notifications and another app showing a flag
    type badge.
  </figcaption>
</figure>

The Badging API allows installed web apps to set an application-wide badge,
shown in an operating-system-specific place associated with the application
(such as the shelf or home screen).

Badging makes it easy to subtly notify the user that there is some new activity
that might require their attention, or to indicate a small amount of
information, such as an unread count.

Badges tend to be more user-friendly than notifications, and can be updated
with a much higher frequency, since they don't interrupt the user. And,
because they don't interrupt the user, they don't need the user's permission.

### Possible use cases {: #use-cases }

Examples of sites that may use this API include:

* Chat, email, and social apps, to signal that new messages have arrived, or to
  show the number of unread items.
* Productivity apps, to signal that a long-running background task (such as
  rendering an image or video) has completed.
* Games, to signal that a player action is required (e.g., in Chess, when it
  is the player's turn).

## Current status {: #status }

> | Step                                       | Status                       |

Reviewer: I think you'll need to wrap this table in `<div class="w-table-wrapper">` for it to overflow and horizontally scroll on mobile. Otherwise it breaks the right edge.

I checked and devsite also has a `devsite-table-wrapper` class but perhaps they inject it as part of their custom markdown parse so it's transparent to the author. I think you're the first person to use a markdown table on the site so we didn't catch this until now :\

If you do the following it will work:

```
<div class="w-table-wrapper">

| Step                                       | Status                       |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------- |
| 1. Create explainer                        | [Complete][explainer]        |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification   | [Complete][spec]             |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design     | [In progress](#feedback)     |
| **4. Origin trial**                        | [**In progress**](#ot)       |
| 5. Launch                                  | Not started                  |

</div>
```

The whitespace between the divs is important. Kinda gross but it does the job.

Reviewer: cc @kaycebasques

Author: Added

---
title: Badging for App Icons
subhead: The Badging API allows installed web apps to set an application-wide badge, shown in an operating-system-specific place associated with the application, such as the shelf or home screen.
authors:
  - petelepage
description: The Badging API allows installed web apps to set an application-wide badge, shown in an operating-system-specific place associated with the application, such as the shelf or home screen. Badging makes it easy to subtly notify the user that there is some new activity that might require their attention, or it can be used to indicate a small amount of information, such as an unread count.
date: 2018-12-11
updated: 2019-09-26
tags:
  - post
  - capabilities
  - badging
  - progressive-web-apps
  - notifications
  - origintrials
  - fugu

> hero: hero.jpg

Author: I pushed up a version of the hero with a lower compression ratio, made the image bigger, but seems better.

> hero: hero.jpg

Reviewer 2: I'll defer to @robdodson to decide

> hero: hero.jpg

Reviewer: The quality of the image seemed ok to me. I think we set the dimensions at 1600 x 480, but it might be good to do these as 3200 x 960 so we can have 2x versions. We'll be switching over to imgix soon which will only serve the correct res version using srcset.

> hero: hero.jpg

Author: The [handbook](https://web.dev/handbook/markup-media/#hero-images) states 1600x800, which is what this is.

> hero: hero.jpg

Reviewer: Yeah I just realized we need to update that guidance. I'll do that now. You can leave it at 1600 if you want, but if you want a crisper version for mobile then a 3200 might look nice.

> hero: hero.jpg

Reviewer: Updated the handbook.

For additional context. Most of the existing hero images are 1600, but we're switching over to an image cdn which will let us srcset the images better. So adding a higher res one now is mostly a future proofing thing if you want to take advantage of 2x on desktop displays. I realize how annoying that is because you already generated your hero images :( It's up to you if you want to redo them—most of the other posts on the site have 1600 heros and will continue to do so after we switch to the cdn because it feels like a nightmare to go back and redo all of those.

alt: Phone showing several notification badges
---

{% Aside 'caution' %}
  We're currently working on this API as part of the new
  [capabilities project](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/capabilities),
  and starting in Chrome 73 it is available as an [**origin trial**](#ot).
  This post will be updated as the Badging API evolves.
{% endAside %}

## What is the Badging API? {: #what }

<figure class="w-figure w-figure--inline-right" style="max-width:50%">

>   <img  src="badges-on-windows.jpg">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <img  src="badges-on-windows.jpg"
             alt="Example of Twitter with eight notifications and another app showing a flag type badge.">
```

Reviewer 2: Note that the formatting of the suggestion UI makes it look like `src` and `alt` aren't lined up, but they are.

  <figcaption>
    Example of Twitter with eight notifications and another app showing a flag
    type badge.
  </figcaption>

> </figure>

Reviewer: One option would be to move the image underneath the first paragraph of text and center it so it can be larger?

> </figure>

Author: I'd prefer to keep it half-width if possible. Any objections?

> </figure>

Reviewer 3: I agree. We should have a way to do this so we can control white space on larger screens.

> </figure>

Reviewer: The image will attempt to center itself on mobile, but since the image is 900px it's taking up the full width. This is fine on a phone but looks a bit weird on a tablet. I think if you crop the image to something like 600-400px it would work fine for the floating case, and also center nicely on mobile and tablets.

> </figure>

Author: Resized to 600px

  is the player's turn).

## Current status {: #status }

| Step                                       | Status                       |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------- |
| 1. Create explainer                        | [Complete][explainer]        |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification   | [Complete][spec]             |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design     | [In progress](#feedback)     |
| **4. Origin trial**                        | [**In progress**](#ot)       |
| 5. Launch                                  | Not started                  |

{% Aside 'codelab' %}
See it in action
{% endAside %}

1. Using Chrome 73 or later on Windows or Mac, open the [Badging API demo][demo].
2. When prompted, click **Install** to install the app, or use the Chrome
   menu to install it.
3. Open it as an installed PWA. Note, it must be running as an installed PWA (in
   your task bar or dock).
4. Click the **Set** or **Clear** button to set or clear the badge from the app
   icon. You can also provide a number for the *Badge value*.

{% Aside %}
  While the Badging API *in Chrome* requires an installed app

>   with an icon that can actually be badged, we advise against

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  with an icon that can actually be badged, you shouldn't
```

Avoiding "we"

>   making calls to the Badging API dependent on the install state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  make calls to the Badging API dependent on the install state.
```

Fixing this sentence because of the change made to the line above it

  The Badging API can apply to *anywhere* a browser might want to show a badge,
  so developers shouldn't make any assumptions about situations where
  the browser will display them. Just call the API when it exists.
  If it works, it works. If not, it simply doesn't.
{% endAside %}

## How to use the Badging API {: #use }

Starting in Chrome 73, the Badging API is available as an origin trial
for Windows (7+) and macOS.

[Origin trials][ot-what-is] allow you to try out new features and give

> feedback on usability, practicality, and effectiveness to us, and the web

Reviewer 3: FWIW, nobody but us cares about whether 'us' refers to Chrome or Google.

> feedback on usability, practicality, and effectiveness to us, and the web

Reviewer: For web.dev one of our goals is to try to be more browser agnostic, as opposed to d.g.c which was explicitly a Google thing. Where possible I think it can be helpful to clearly define who 'we' or 'us' refers to, and when things are being done by the Chrome team, or perhaps a W3C working group, or even another browser writing a guest post.

standards community. For more information, see the
[Origin Trials Guide for Web Developers][ot-dev-guide].

{% Aside 'caution' %}
  Android is not supported because it requires you to show a notification,
  though this may change in the future. Chrome OS support is pending
  implementation of badging on the platform.
{% endAside %}

> ### Register for the origin trial {: #ot }

Author: Oh, that'd be awesome.

> ### Register for the origin trial {: #ot }

Reviewer: Added a comment related to this elsewhere. Joe created an include:

```
{% include 'content/relevant-lighthouse-collection/scoring.njk' %}
```

It explains what origin trials are, but we may also want one for joining an origin trial.

  to the provided value otherwise, display a plain white dot (or other flag as
  appropriate to the platform).
* `clear()`: Removes app's badge.

For example:

```js
// In a web page
const unreadCount = 24;
window.ExperimentalBadge.set(unreadCount);
```

`ExperimentalBadge.set()` and `ExperimentalBadge.clear()` can be called from
a foreground page, or potentially in the future, a service worker. In either
case, it affects the whole app, not just the current page.

In some cases, the OS may not allow the exact representation of the badge,
in this case, the browser will attempt to provide the best representation for
that device. For example, while the Badging API isn't supported on Android,
Android only ever shows a dot instead of a numeric value.

Don't assume anything about how the user agent wants to display the badge.
We expect some user agents will take a number like "4000" and rewrite it as
"99+". If you saturate the badge yourself (for example by setting it to "99")
then the "+" won't appear. No matter the actual number, just set
`Badge.set(unreadCount)` and let the user agent deal with displaying it
accordingly.

## Feedback {: #feedback }

> We want to hear about your experiences with the Badging API.

Reviewer 2: This use of "we" is fine IMO because the sections below make it clear who "we" represents in each context

Reviewer: I'm wondering if it should say "the Chrome team" instead of "we"? I made a similar comment on Yoav's post for responsive images where I asked him to define "we" as "The Web Performance Working Group".

I'd like, as much as possible, for us to try to be browser agnostic where we can, or clearly identify when Chrome is doing something. I think this helps with web.dev's neutrality and ensuring that other browsers feel like it's a resource they can link to and contribute to.

Author: Updated.

---
title: Badging for app icons

> subhead: The Badging API allows installed web apps to set an application-wide badge, shown in an operating-system-specific place associated with the application, such as the shelf or home screen.

Reviewer: See https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/pull/1622#discussion_r333151625 for note on the subhead. I think maybe the best examples of what we're aiming for with the subheads are like the ones on https://medium.com. Kind of like an extra hook or piece of context to pull the reader in.

Reviewer 2: FYI @robdodson I added an item to the content checklist to check for this: https://github.com/GoogleChrome/web.dev/commit/be53611288bc181fecb7d9a8107c3ea58b66b48a

Reviewer: great thank you!

Author: Shortened

authors:
  - petelepage
description: The Badging API allows installed web apps to set an application-wide badge, shown in an operating-system-specific place associated with the application, such as the shelf or home screen. Badging makes it easy to subtly notify the user that there is some new activity that might require their attention, or it can be used to indicate a small amount of information, such as an unread count.
date: 2018-12-11
updated: 2019-10-08
tags:
  - post
  - capabilities
  - badging
  - progressive-web-apps
  - notifications
  - origintrials
  - fugu
hero: hero.jpg

> alt: Phone showing several notification badges

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
alt: Phone showing several notification badges
draft: true
```

> alt: Phone showing several notification badges

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
alt: Phone showing several notification badges
draft: true
```

@petele you mentioned that you'd prefer to publish all the posts at once. When the time comes we can submit a follow-up PR to remove this flag.

---

{% Aside 'caution' %}

>   This API as part of the new

Reviewer 3: 'This API as' to 'This API is'.

Author: Fixed

>   This API as part of the new

Reviewer 3: Change 'This API as' to 'This API is'.

Author: Fixed

  [capabilities project](https://developers.google.com/web/updates/capabilities),

>   and starting in Chrome 73 it is available as an [**origin trial**](#ot).

Reviewer: Are any of the capabilities things also being worked on by other browsers? As much as possible we'd like to keep the site browser agnostic, so if there are opportunities to link to, or highlight progress by other browsers on these same APIs that would be good.

Author: For the most part Fugu APIs will be Chrome only until passed the OT state. That may change in the future once Edge has a way to do OTs, but for now they don't and are unable to enable these kinds of things.

  This post will be updated as the Badging API evolves.
{% endAside %}

## What is the Badging API? {: #what }

> <figure class="w-figure w-figure--inline-right" style="max-width:50%">

Reviewer: In general we try to discourage inline styles because when we update the components it may conflict with the inline styles folks have created.

In this case I think the image itself should be resized to around 400px. I think it will then display at the correct size on desktop and mobile.

Author: I used this because I couldn't find an equivalent to `.attempt-right` with from DevSite. Is there one that I missed? If not, can we get one?

Author: N/M, removed the `max-width` attribute

>   <img  src="badges-on-windows.jpg"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <img  src="badges-on-windows.jpg" class="w-screenshot"
```

with a much higher frequency, since they don't interrupt the user. And,
because they don't interrupt the user, they don't need the user's permission.

### Possible use cases {: #use-cases }

Examples of sites that may use this API include:

* Chat, email, and social apps, to signal that new messages have arrived, or to
  show the number of unread items.
* Productivity apps, to signal that a long-running background task (such as
  rendering an image or video) has completed.
* Games, to signal that a player action is required (e.g., in Chess, when it
  is the player's turn).

## Current status {: #status }

| Step                                       | Status                       |
| ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------- |
| 1. Create explainer                        | [Complete][explainer]        |
| 2. Create initial draft of specification   | [Complete][spec]             |
| 3. Gather feedback & iterate on design     | [In progress](#feedback)     |
| **4. Origin trial**                        | [**In progress**](#ot)       |
| 5. Launch                                  | Not started                  |

> {% Aside 'codelab' %}

Reviewer: I think we only use this style of aside to link to codelabs on the site. To keep the UI consistent I would suggest using a heading here instead.

See it in action
{% endAside %}

1. Using Chrome 73 or later on Windows or Mac, open the [Badging API demo][demo].
2. When prompted, click **Install** to install the app, or use the Chrome
   menu to install it.
3. Open it as an installed PWA. Note, it must be running as an installed PWA (in
   your task bar or dock).
4. Click the **Set** or **Clear** button to set or clear the badge from the app
   icon. You can also provide a number for the *Badge value*.

{% Aside %}
  While the Badging API *in Chrome* requires an installed app
  with an icon that can actually be badged, you shouldn't
  make calls to the Badging API dependent on the install state.
  The Badging API can apply to *anywhere* a browser might want to show a badge,
  so developers shouldn't make any assumptions about situations where
  the browser will display them. Just call the API when it exists.
  If it works, it works. If not, it simply doesn't.
{% endAside %}

## How to use the Badging API {: #use }

> Starting in Chrome 73, the Badging API is available as an origin trial

Reviewer: Would it also be available in Edge possibly?

Author: No, see previous comment.

for Windows (7+) and macOS.

> [Origin trials][ot-what-is] allow you to try out new features and give

Reviewer: I believe Joe made an include for this.

```
{% include 'content/origin-trials.njk' %}
```

Author: That include doesn't include all of the stuff in this block. Plus, it doesn't allow us to link directly to the specific origin trial for this API.

Author: I just tried to include it, and it looks like some of the links in it are broken (uses markdown reference links). I'd also like to not have it as an aside. Will use for future docs if that's OK

Reviewer: Since it's the same text as Joe's include it seems like we should deduplicate if possible. Checking the site... I don't think Joe's include is actually used anywhere yet so we could remove the Aside.

feedback on usability, practicality, and effectiveness to the Chrome team and the web
standards community. For more information, see the
[Origin Trials Guide for Web Developers][ot-dev-guide].

{% Aside 'caution' %}
  Android is not supported because it requires you to show a notification,
  though this may change in the future. Chrome OS support is pending
  implementation of badging on the platform.
{% endAside %}

### Register for the origin trial {: #ot }

> 1. [Request a token][ot-request] for your origin.

Reviewer: Will all of the capabilities posts have a block like this? If so we might want to also put it into an include.

Reviewer 2: @robdodson see #1618

Author: Putting it into an include would be nice, as long as we can set a variable or something on the include so that it links directly to the origin trial we're referencing.
